Docs: Access control documentation reworked 2 (#5480)
WeblateOrg/weblate: docs/admin/access.rst

    specifically built for Weblate. If you are using anything older, please consult
    the documentation for the specific version you are using.

After installing Weblate, you can grant permissions to various things on the
whole installation using :ref:`default-groups`. :ref:`acl` lets you grant
permissions to specific translation projects. If you want to fine-tune the
permissions you give based on groups you make yourself, you can do so
using :ref:`custom-acl`.

In the permission system, roles define a set of permissions, and you can
put users in groups that have one or more of these roles, described in
:ref:`auth-model`.

Site wide permissions
+++++++++++++++++++++

By default, new users get access to comment, provide suggestions, and make translations

> everywhere by being put in the `Users` group automatically by :ref:`autogroup`.

Author: Will look at this later. Seems there is a dot missing behind "etc."

> everywhere by being put in the `Users` group automatically by :ref:`autogroup`.

Reviewer: yep, I wasn't sure whether `etc` have to end with a dot or not...

You can put the users you deem fit in the `Reviewers` to let them review everything,

> and the `Managers` groups to do all of the above everywhere.

Reviewer: The whole section looks irrelevant for the title: doesn't tell anything on how to manage the site-wide permissions.

Also it is misleading:
* `Reviewers` don't review everything, but just components configured to be reviewed.
* `Managers` has much more rights than listed above.

Author: @Fat-Zer what I was going for might work better with: "You can put the users you deem fit in groups such as `Users`". Is anything missing then?

    specifically built for Weblate. If you are using anything older, please consult
    the documentation for the specific version you are using.

Weblate comes with a fine-grained privilege system to assign user permissions
for the whole instance, or in a limited scope.
After installing Weblate, you can grant permissions to various things on the
whole installation using :ref:`default-groups`. :ref:`acl` lets you grant
permissions to specific translation projects. If you want to fine-tune the
permissions you give based on groups you make yourself, you can do so
using :ref:`custom-acl`.

The permission system is based on groups and roles, where roles define a set of
permissions, and groups assign them to users and translations, see
:ref:`auth-model` for more details.

After installation a default set of groups are created, and you can use those
to assign users roles for the whole instance (see :ref:`default-groups`). Additionally when
:ref:`acl` is turned on, you can assign users to specific translation projects.
More fine-grained configuration can be achieved using :ref:`custom-acl`.

Common setups
-------------

> Locking down Weblate

Author: Moved this all the way to the bottom.
I don't see how locking down everything is common setup. There is rarely malice, and most instances don't run this. "Common setup → total lockdown" is a strange message to send IMO.

++++++++++++++++++++

To completely lock down your Weblate, you can use :setting:`REQUIRE_LOGIN` to
force users to sign in and :setting:`REGISTRATION_OPEN` to prevent new
registrations.
In the permission system, roles define a set of permissions, and you can
put users in groups that have one or more of these roles, described in
:ref:`auth-model`.

Site wide permissions
+++++++++++++++++++++

To manage permissions for a whole instance, just add users to `Users` (this is done
by default using the :ref:`autogroup`), `Reviewers` and `Managers` groups. Keep

> all projects configured as `Public` (see :ref:`acl`).

Author: It isn't obvious _why_ all projects should be kept public?
Is it because permissions won't be site-wide if some projects are made private?

Reviewer: It's relevant for a "Common setup" "Site wide permissions" i.e. if you want to manage permissions site-wide you should keep projects as `public`.

Author: It just looked like a general recommendation to me.

> To manage permissions for a whole instance, just add users to 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> To manage permissions for a whole instance, just add users to 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> By default, new users get access to comment, provide suggestions, and make translations

Author: Guessing here.

By default, new users get access to comment, provide suggestions, and make translations
everywhere by being put in `Users` automatically by :ref:`autogroup`.
You can put the users you deem fit in the `Reviewers` to let them review everything,
and `Managers` groups to do all of the above everywhere.
Keep all projects configured as `Public` (see :ref:`acl`).

Per project permissions
+++++++++++++++++++++++

.. include:: /snippets/not-hosted-libre.rst

Set your projects to `Protected` or `Private`, and manage users per
project in the Weblate interface.
Setting projects you administrate to `Protected` or `Private` lets you manage
users per project in the Weblate interface.

Custom permissions for languages, components or projects
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. include:: /snippets/not-hosted-libre.rst

Members are granted any permissions assigned to groups they are in, so you can
grant the user multiple permissions at once. Create groups and attach them to a project,
grant a user multiple permissions at once. Create groups and attach them to a project,
component, or language. You can put users in multiple groups, and permissions
can overlap between them.

> Granting any selected permissions based on project, component or language

Author: This whole paragraph was the initial problem. I messed it up, and it wasn't good before that. I can't understand how it adds anything of value, so removed it…

> as a means of granting write access to the Glossary for Czech and any projects

Author: This needs a better explanation of what things do and why.

.. note::

    By turning on access control, all users are prohibited from accessing anything
    within the given project, unless you add the permissions for them to do just that.

.. include:: /snippets/not-hosted-libre.rst

Limit user's access to individual projects by selecting a different access

> control type from the :guilabel:`Access` tab in the :guilabel:`Settings` of

Author: It could be, but this is the sleeker way (I think) also used elsewhere.
It isn't so much "on the tab" as it is "in the tab", but moreso "beyond the tab on the tab page"?
It was:
"selecting a different access control variation on the Access tab in the Settings of each respective project."

> control type from the :guilabel:`Access` tab in the :guilabel:`Settings` of

Reviewer: ok, fine by me...

each respective project. This automatically creates several groups for the
project in question, see :ref:`groups`.

:guilabel:`Access control` can be set to:

Public
    Publicly visible, translatable for all logged-in users
Protected

>     Publicly visible, but only translatable for selected users

Author: Would you be happy with "only translatable for select users".

>     Publicly visible, but only translatable for selected users

Reviewer: Not really =/
I'm a bit confused, why you want to change it at all... It seems perfectly fine to me...

Private
    Only visible and translatable for selected users
Custom
    The Django admin-interface manages users instead of Weblate, see :ref:`custom-acl`.

.. image:: /images/project-access.png

> Grant access to a project by adding the privilege either directly to a user,

Author: Need a "since version" or tip about that.

> Grant access to a project by adding the privilege either directly to a user,

Reviewer: It's from before 3.0 times, there is a `versionchanged` right at the start of the page ;)
Not all the documentation content was changed accordingly since those times...

.. note::

    By turning on access control, all users are prohibited from accessing anything
    within a given project, unless you add the permissions for them to do just that.
    within the given project, unless you add the permissions for them to do just that.

.. include:: /snippets/not-hosted-libre.rst

Limit user's access to individual projects by selecting a different access

> control variation on the :guilabel:`Access` tab in the :guilabel:`Settings` of

Author: Why variation? How many are there?

Author: Partly, but "variation" suggests it is a custom set of stuff that results in a variation, and "type" sounds like it is a list of pre-determined ways of control to chose from.

Adjust vs. pick.

project in question, see :ref:`groups`.

:guilabel:`Access control` can be set to:

Public
    Publicly visible, translatable for all logged-in users
Protected
    Publicly visible, but only translatable for selected users
Private
    Only visible and translatable for selected users
Custom
    The Django admin-interface manages users instead of Weblate, see :ref:`custom-acl`.

.. image:: /images/project-access.png

Grant access to a project by adding the privilege either directly to a user,
or group of users in the Django admin-interface, or by using `User management`
from the project page in question, as described in :ref:`manage-acl`.

.. note::

    Even with access control turned on, some info will be available about your
    project:

>     * Statistics for the whole site, including the number of projects on it.

Author: What are counts? Tallies? People that live in castles?

Reviewer: For the record, first time I've stumbled upon the term "tallies" in Webblate, I was very confused what is it and felt strong urgent to replace it with `counts`...

I don't suggest to change it... just wanted to share my experience...

>     * Language summary for the whole site, including counts for all projects.

Author: Another "counts". Of?

>     * The VCS project repository address, even if it is a private prepository.

Author: @nijel There was a person mentioning this in a bug-report I remember.

Author: Fixed spelling, needs answering.

    Individual permissions defined by Weblate. Permissions can not be
    assigned to users. This can only be done through assignment of roles.
`Role`

>     A role defines a set of permissions, and can be reused in several places.

Author: ```suggestion
    A role defines a set of permissions, for ease of use in several places.
```

Author: I think both are valid clauses here.
If I want to remember what an old group did, I can keep the set of privileges it had around.

Reviewer: May be a more straightforward variant:
```suggestion
    A role defines a set of permissions, so it can be reused in different groups.
```

Permission checking
+++++++++++++++++++

Whenever a permission is checked to decide whether the user is able to

> perform a given action, the check is carried out according to scope, and

Author: does the word "scope" have to be used?

Author: I think that is better, but I don't really know when the check is carried out.

Reviewer: ??

the check is performed when a user tries to do a certain action... or what do you mean?

-------------------------

All users and the various groups they are in can be managed using the

> available Django admin-interface, which you can get to by appending

Author: It has a deprecated note though. Sounds like it will be removed fully. (Which would remove some complexity.)

> available Django admin-interface, which you can get to by appending

Reviewer: It won't be removed soon, I guarantee... Unless some one (namely najel) will reimplement full-featured group/permission management in the weblate UI, but it will likely cause rewrite of most of the access control chapter from scratch yet another time... It's pretty big task which probably won't bring a lot...

-------------------------

All users and the various groups they are in can be managed using the

> Django admin-interface available, which you can get to by appending

Author: ```suggestion
available Django admin-interface, which you can get to by appending
```
as opposed to "many exist and one happened to be vacant". Bit redundant still.

    Never remove the predefined Weblate groups and users, as this can lead to
    unexpected problems. If you have no use for them, you can removing all their
    privileges instead.

Locking down Weblate
++++++++++++++++++++

> If you experience problems with malice on your Weblate installation,

Author: ```suggestion
If you want ultimate control of who signs up for the platform, or experience problems with malice on your Weblate installation,
```
Unless this is true?

Reviewer: I've looked back into origin of the passage: it was introduced around weblate 1.3; the original intention (as far as I can tell) was to document a way to create a most private weblate installation, see #131.

That's how it ended up in `Common setups`: it's a way to setup the weblate as private as possible, i.e. if you only want to add new users manually and forbid anybody who's unregistered from accessing any page. `Locking down` is kinda misleading here...

See suggestion bellow.

Author: "Ultimate control" is a paradox of insufficiency. It sounds too good.

Reviewer: `paradox of insufficiency` ??

> If you experience problems with malice on your Weblate installation,

Author: Well, I really hate it in practice, so I am pretending it is the only reason between the lines.

> Locking down Weblate
> --------------------
> 
> If you experience problems with malice on your Weblate installation,
> you can use :setting:`REQUIRE_LOGIN` to require users to sign in and
> :setting:`REGISTRATION_OPEN` to prevent any new registrations.

Reviewer: I suggest to move this section up again and rename:

```suggestion
Additional access restrictions
--------------------

If you want to use your Weblate installation in a more private manner,
you can configure the Weblate in a such way that only known users will 
have any access to it. In order to do so you should set 
:setting:`REGISTRATION_OPEN` to ``False`` to prevent registrations of any
new users and set :setting:`REQUIRE_LOGIN` to ``/.*`` to require sign in
to access any page.
```

Author: I don't think "private" is a good word as it encompasses security. It also isn't the opposite of "public" there.

Reviewer: `less public` than? and s/the Weblate/it/ to remove word repetition...
